		Blu-ray Disc
	Blu-ray, also known as Blu-ray Disc (BD), is the name of a next-generation optical disc format jointly developed by the Blu-ray Disc Association (BDA), a group of the world's leading consumer electronics, personal computer and media manufacturers (including Apple, Dell, Hitachi, HP, JVC, LG, Mitsubishi, Panasonic, Pioneer, Philips, Samsung, Sharp, Sony, TDK and Thomson). The format was developed to enable recording, rewriting and playback of high-defmition video (HD), as well as storing large amounts of data. The format offers more than five times the storage capacity of traditional DVDs and can hold up to 25GB on a single-layer disc and 50GB on a dual-layer disc. This extra capacity combined with the use of advanced video and audio codecs will offer consumers an unprecedented HD experience.
	While current optical disc technologies such as DVD, DVD±R, DVD±RW, and DVD-RAM rely on a red laser to read and write data, the new format uses a blue-violet laser instead, hence the name Blu-ray. Despite the different type of lasers used, Blu-ray products can easily be made backwards compatible with CDs and DVDs through the use of a BD/DVD/CD compatible optical pickup unit. The benefit of using a blue-violet laser (405nm) is that it has a shorter wavelength than a red laser (650nm), which makes it possible to focus the laser spot with even greater precision. This allows data to be packed more tightly and stored in less space, so it's possible to fit more data on the disc even though it's the same size as a CD/DVD. This together with the change of numerical aperture to 0.85 is what enables Blu-ray Discs to hold 25GB/50GB. Recent development by Pioneer has pushed the storage capacity to 500GB on a single disc by using 20 layers.
	Blu-ray is currently supported by about 200 of the world's leading consumer electronics, personal computer, recording media, video game and music companies. The format also has support from all Hollywood studios and countless smaller studios as a successor to today's DVD format. Many studios have also announced that they will begin releasing new feature films on Blu-ray Disc day-and-date with DVD, as well as a continuous slate of catalog titles every month. For more information about Blu-ray movies, check out our Blu-ray movies and Blu-ray reviews section which offers information about new and upcoming Blu-ray releases, as well as what movies are currently available in the Blu-ray format. ~ 2045

		 Blu-Ray Disc
	 Blu-ray, также известный как Blu-ray Disc (BD), это название формата оптических дисков нового поколения, совместно разработанного Ассоциацией Blu-ray Disc (BDA), группой ведущих мировых производителей бытовой электроники, личного компьютерные и медиа-производителей (включая Apple, Dell, Hitachi, HP, JVC, LG, Mitsubishi, Panasonic, Pioneer, Philips, Samsung, Sharp, Sony, TDK и Thomson). Этот формат был разработан для записи, перезаписи и воспроизведения видео высокой четкости (HD), а также для хранения больших объемов данных. Формат предлагает более чем в пять раз емкость традиционных DVD-дисков и может вместить до 25 Гб на однослойном диске и 50 ГБ на двухслойном диске. Эта дополнительная мощность в сочетании с использованием современных видео и аудио кодеков будет предлагать потребителям беспрецедентный опыт HD.
	 Хотя современные оптические технологии дисков, такие как DVD, DVD ± R, DVD ± RW и DVD-RAM полагаться на красный лазер для чтения и записи данных, новый формат использует сине-фиолетовый лазер вместо этого, отсюда и название Blu-Ray , Несмотря на другой тип лазеров, используемых, Blu-Ray продукты легко могут быть сделаны обратную совместимость с компакт-дисков и DVD-дисков с помощью использования / DVD / CD совместимого оптической считывающей головки BD. Преимущество использования сине-фиолетовый лазер (405nm) является то, что она имеет более короткую длину волны, чем красный лазер (650 нм), что позволяет сфокусировать лазерное пятно с еще большей точностью. Это позволяет получать данные более плотно упакованы и хранятся в меньшем пространстве, так что можно разместить больше данных на диске, даже если это тот же размер, как CD / DVD. Это, вместе с изменением числовой апертуры до 0,85 то, что позволяет Blu-Ray диски провести 25GB / 50GB. Последние разработки от Pioneer подтолкнул емкость до 500 Гб на одном диске, используя 20 слоев.
	 Blu-ray в настоящее время поддерживается около 200 ведущих мировых производителей бытовой электроники, персональных компьютеров, носитель записи видео игры и музыкальные компании. Формат также имеет поддержку со стороны всех голливудских студий и бесчисленных небольших студий в качестве преемника сегодняшнего формата DVD. Многие студии также объявили, что они начнут выпускать новые художественные фильмы на Blu-Ray Disc днем ​​и актуальный с DVD, а также непрерывный шифер каталога названий каждый месяц. Для получения дополнительной информации о Blu-Ray фильмов, проверить наш Blu-Ray фильмы и Blu-Ray обзоры раздел, который предлагает информацию о новых и предстоящих релизов Blu-Ray, а также какие фильмы в настоящее время доступны в формате Blu-Ray. ~ 2045
