		Computer Graphics
	Computer graphics are pictures and drawings produced by computers. A graphics programme interprets the input provided by the user and transports it into images that can be displayed on the screen, printed on paper or transferred to microfilm. In the process the computer uses hundreds of mathematical formulas to convert the bits of data into precise shapes and colours. Graphics can be developed for a variety of uses including illustrations, architectural designs and detailed engineering drawings.
	Mechanical engineering uses sophisticated programs for applications in computer-aided design (CAD) and computer-aided manufacturing (CAM). In the car industry CAD software is used to develop, model and test car designs before the actual parts are made. This can save a lot of time and money.
	Basically, computer helps users to understand complex information quickly by presenting it in more understandable and clearer visual forms. Electric engineers use computer graphics for designing circuits and in business it is possible to present information as graphics and diagrams. These are certain to be much more effective ways of communicating than lists of figures or long explanations.
	Today, three-dimensional graphics along with colour and computer animation are supposed to be essential for graphic design, computer-aided engineering (CAE) and academic research. Computer animation is the process of creating objects and pictures which move across the screen; it is used by scientists and engineers to analyze problems. With appropriate software they can study the structure of objects and how it is affected by particular changes.
	A graphic package is the software that enables the user to draw and manipulate objects on a computer. Each graphic package has its own facilities, as well as a wide range of basic drawing and painting tools. The collection of tools in a package is known as a palette. The basic geometric shapes, such as lines between two points, arcs, circles, polygons, ellipses and even text, making graphical objects are called “primitives”. You can choose both the primitive you want and where it should go on the screen. Moreover, you can specify the «attributes» of each primitive, e.g., its colour, line type and so on. The various tools in a palette usually appear together as pop-up icons in a menu. To use one you can activate it by clicking on it.
	After specifying the primitives and their attributes you must transform them. Transformation means moving or manipulating the object by translating, rotating and scaling the object.
	Translation is moving an object along an axis to somewhere else in the viewing area. Rotation is turning the object larger or smaller in any of the horizontal, vertical or depth direction (corresponding to the x, у and z axis). The term «rendering» describes the techniques used to make your object look real. Rendering includes hidden surface removal, light sources and reflections.- 2482

		 Компьютерная графика
	 Компьютерная графика картины и рисунки с помощью компьютеров. Графическая программа интерпретирует входные данные, предоставленный пользователем, и переносит их в изображения, которые могут отображаться на экране, напечатаны на бумаге или переданы в виде микрофильмов. В процессе компьютер использует сотни математических формул для преобразования битов данных в точные формы и цвета. Графика может быть разработан для различных целей, включая иллюстрации, архитектурных конструкций и детальных технических чертежей.
	 Машиностроение использует сложные программы для применения в системе автоматизированного проектирования (САПР) и автоматизированного производства (CAM). В программное обеспечение САПР автомобильной промышленности используется для разработки, модели и автомобиль испытания конструкции, прежде чем сделаны фактические детали. Это может сэкономить много времени и денег.
	 В основном, компьютер помогает пользователям понять сложную информацию быстро, представив его в более понятных и четких визуальных форм. Электрические инженеры используют компьютерную графику для проектирования схем и в бизнесе можно представить информацию в виде графиков и диаграмм. Это наверняка будет гораздо более эффективным способам общения, чем списки фигур или длинных объяснений.
	 Сегодня трехмерная графика наряду с цветом и компьютерной анимации должны иметь важное значение для графического дизайна, автоматизированного инженерного (CAE) и научных исследований. Компьютерная анимация представляет собой процесс создания объектов и изображений, которые перемещаются по экрану; она используется учеными и инженерами для анализа проблем. С помощью соответствующего программного обеспечения они могут изучить структуру объектов и как она зависит от конкретных изменений.
	 Графический пакет является программное обеспечение, которое позволяет пользователю рисовать и манипулировать объектами на компьютере. Каждый графический пакет имеет свои собственные средства, а также широкий спектр основных рисунка и живописи инструментов. Коллекция инструментов в пакете известен как палитра. Основные геометрические фигуры, такие как линии между двумя точками, дуги, круги, многоугольники, эллипсы и даже текста, что делает графические объекты называются "примитивы". Вы можете выбрать как примитивный вы хотите, и где она должна идти на экране. Кроме того, вы можете указать «атрибуты» каждого примитива, например, его цвет, тип линии и так далее. Различные инструменты, в палитре, как правило, появляются вместе как всплывающие иконки в меню. Для того, чтобы использовать тот, который вы можете активировать его, нажав на него.
	 После указания примитивов и их атрибутов вы должны преобразовать их. Трансформация означает перемещение или манипулирования объектом путем перевода, вращения и масштабирования объекта.
	 Перевод движется объект вдоль оси, чтобы где-то в области просмотра. Вращение поворачивает объект больше или меньше в любом из горизонтальной, вертикальной или глубины направлении (в соответствии с х, у и осью г). Термин «рендеринг» описывает методы, используемые, чтобы сделать ваш объект выглядит реальным. Предоставление включает в себя скрытую удаление поверхности, источники света и reflections.- 2482
