			History and IMAX 3D Technology
		How we see
	The fact that our left eye and right eye see objects from different angles is the basis of 3D photography. If you try looking at an object through one eye and then the other, you will notice that it slightly changes position. However, with both eyes open, the two images that each eye observes separately are fused together as one by our brain. It is the fusion of these two images that creates normal binocular sight and allows our brain to understand depth and distance.

		Pre-cinema
	To replicate this process on film, two camera lenses are used in place of our two eyes. In 1838, Charles Wheatstone invented the world's first stereoscopic viewer based on Renaissance theories of perspective. Constructed of an assortment of angled mirrors, his invention contained two separate drawings - one for the left eye and one for the right. When both images were observed at the same time, Wheatstone's viewing device produced a stereo image. Weatstone's device encouraged the beginning of a new era in motion and still photography.

		3D Cinema
	Filmmakers place the two lenses of a 3D camera at about the same distance apart as the distance between our eyes. This space is referred to as the interocular distance, or interaxial distance, and is typically set at about 2-1/2 inches.
	To project a 3D film, two individual images representing the perspective of the left and right eye are simultaneously projected on screen. Without special glasses during the presentation, it will seem like you are seeing double, because in fact you are seeing double. Fortunately, the 3D glasses correct this problem. Each lens of the 3D glasses has a special filter which blocks out the opposing image, allowing each eye to see only one image. Your brain perceives the fusion of the two separate images as one three-dimensional image.

		Projecting 3D Film
	There are several ways to project the dual images necessary to exhibit a 3D film; however, not all processes require two separate projectors. The anaglyphic film format simultaneously projects two different, offset images from one single strip of film. One image is coated with a green (or blue) colour; the other image is coated red. Spectators are given glasses that sort one green (or blue) lens and one red lens. The green lens of the glasses cancels out the red image on screen, while the red lens of the glasses cancel out the green (or blue) image on the screen. Your brain processes the two separated images as one 3D black and white image!
	To see 3D in colour, the images for the left and right eye must be kept separate. Before the advent of today's large format theaters, which use two separate synchronized projectors, previous methods placed two 35mm frames in various configurations, either over and under each other or side by side.

		Modem Improvements
	Contemporary 3D films have begun to use computer generated imagery (CGI) to maximize the 3D illusion. Use of computer created images allows filmmakers total control over convergence and focus, the two most problematic aspects of live action 3D production. By creating the environment in the computer, the point of convergence can be precisely set by the filmmaker. Furthermore, the entire frame can be kept in focus, something nearly impossible to do when shooting by conventional means. What this means is that when the film is projected onto the screen, you will absorb the visual information much like you would in the real world, thus maximizing the illusion.~2889





			История и IMAX 3D технологии
		Как мы видим
	Тот факт, что наш левый глаз и правый глаз видеть объекты с разных точек зрения является основой 3D фотографии. Если вы пытаетесь смотреть на объект через один глаз, а затем с другой стороны, вы заметите, что она слегка меняет положение. Тем не менее, с обоими открытыми глазами, два изображения, что каждый глаз наблюдает отдельно сплавлены вместе, как один наш мозг. Это слияние этих двух образов, которые создает нормальное зрение бинокулярное и позволяет нашему мозгу, чтобы понять глубину и расстояние.
		Предварительно кино
	Чтобы повторить этот процесс на пленку, две линзы камеры используются вместо двух наших глаз. В 1838 году Чарльз Уитстона изобрел первый в мире стереоскопический зрителя на основе теории Ренессанса перспективы. Изготовленный из ассортимента угловых зеркал, его изобретение содержит два отдельных рисунков - один для левого глаза и один для правой стороны. Когда оба изображения наблюдались в то же время, устройство наблюдения Уитсона производится стереоизображение. Устройство Уитсона поощрял начало новой эры в движении и еще фотографии.
		3D кино
	Кинематографисты разместить две линзы 3D-камеры примерно на том же расстоянии друг от друга, как расстояние между нашими глазами. Это пространство называется межглазное расстояние, или межосевое расстояние, и обычно устанавливается примерно 2-1 / 2 дюйма. Для проецирования 3D-фильма, два отдельных изображения, представляющие перспективу левого и правого глаза одновременно проецируется на экран. Без специальных очков во время презентации, будет казаться, что вы видите двойные, потому что на самом деле вы видите дважды. К счастью, 3D-очки исправить эту проблему. Каждая линза 3D-очков имеет специальный фильтр, который блокирует противостоящей изображения, позволяя каждому глазу видеть только одно изображение. Ваш мозг воспринимает слияние двух отдельных изображений в качестве одного трехмерного изображения.
		Проецирование 3D Film
	Есть несколько способов для проецирования изображения двойной необходимые для проявления 3D фильм; Однако, не все процессы требуют двух отдельных проекторов. Формат анаглифических пленка одновременно проектирует две разные, смещенные изображения из одной полосы пленки. Одно изображение покрыто зеленой (или голубой) цвет; другое изображение с покрытием красного цвета. Зрители дают очки, своего рода один зеленый (или синий) объектива и одной красной линзой. Объектив зеленого цвета стекол гасит красный изображение на экране, в то время как красный линзы из стекол компенсируют зеленый (или синий) изображение на экране. Ваш мозг обрабатывает двух отдельных изображений в виде одного 3D черно-белое изображение! Для того, чтобы увидеть 3D в цвете, в котором изображения для левого и правого глаза должны храниться отдельно. До появления современных крупных кинотеатров формата, которые используют две отдельные синхронизированные проекторы, предыдущие методы размещены два 35 кадров в различных конфигурациях, либо над и под друг с другом или бок о бок.
		Modem Улучшения
	Современные 3D-фильмы начали использовать компьютер генерируемые образы (CGI), чтобы максимизировать иллюзию 3D. Использование компьютерных созданных образов позволяет кинематографисты полный контроль над конвергенцией и фокусом, две наиболее проблемные аспекты живого действия 3D производства. Создавая среду в компьютере, точка сходимости может быть точно установлен кинорежиссера. Кроме того, весь кадр может быть в фокусе, что-то практически невозможно сделать при съемке с помощью обычных средств. Что это означает, что, когда фильм проецируется на экран, вы будете поглощать визуальную информацию так же, как вы бы в реальном мире, тем самым максимизируя иллюзию. ~ 2889
