		Smartphone
	A smartphone is a mobile phone offering advanced capabilities, often with PC-like functionality. There is no industry standard definition of a smartphone. For some, a smartphone is a phone that runs complete operating system software providing a standardized interface and platform for application developers. For others, a smartphone is simply a phone with advanced features like e-mail, Internet and e-book reader capabilities, and or a built-in full keyboard or external USB keyboard and VGA connector. In other words, it is a miniature computer that has phone capability.
	Growth in demand for advanced mobile devices boasting powerful processors, abundant memory, large screens and open operating systems has outpaced the rest of the mobile phone market for several years.
	The first smartphone was called Simon; it was designed by IBM in 1992 and shown as a concept product that year at COMDEX, the computer industry trade show held in Las Vegas, Nevada. It was released to the public in 1993 and sold by BellSouth. Besides being a mobile phone, it also contained a calendar, address book, world clock, calculator, note pad, e-mail, send and receive fax, and games. It had no physical buttons to dial with. Instead of customers used a touch-screen to select phone numbers with a finger or create facsimiles and memos with an optional stylus. Text was entered with a unique on-screen "predictive" keyboard. By today's standards, the Simon would be a fairly low-end product, however its feature set at the time was incredibly advanced.
	The Nokia Communicator line was the first of Nokia's smartphones starting with the Nokia 9000, released in 1996. This distinctive palmtop computer style smartphone was the result of a collaborative effort of an early successful and expensive PDA model by Hewlett Packard combined with Nokia's bestselling phone around that time and early prototype models had the two devices fixed via a hinge; the Nokia 9210 as the first color screen Communicator model which was the first true smartphone with an open operating system; the 9500 Communicator that was also Nokia's first cameraphone Communicator and Nokia's first WiFi phone; the 9300 Communicator was the third dimensional shift into a smaller form factor; and the latest E90 Communicator includes GPS. The Nokia Communicator model is remarkable also having been the most expensive phone model sold by a major brand for almost the full lifespan of the model series, easily 20% and sometimes 40% more expensive than the next most expensive smartphone by any major manufacturer.
	The Ericsson R380 was sold as a 'smartphone' but could not run native third-party applications. Although the Nokia 9210 was arguably the first true smartphone...
	In 2001 RIM released the first BlackBery which was the first smartphone optimized for wireless email use and has achieved a total customer base of 8 million subscribers by June 2007, of which three quarters are in North America.
	Although the Nokia 7650, announced in 2001, was referred to as a 'smart phone' in the media, and is now called a 'smartphone' on the Nokia support site, the press release referred to it as an 'imaging phone'. Handspring delivered the first widely popular smartphone devices in the US market by marrying its Palm OS based Visor PDA together with a piggybacked GSM phone module, the VisorPhone. By 2002, Handspring was marketing an integrated smartphone called the Treo; the company subsequently merged with Palm primarily because the PDA market was dying but the Treo smartphone was quickly becoming popular as a phone with extended PDA organizer features. That same year, Microsoft announced its Windows CE Pocket PC OS would be offered as "Microsoft Windows Powered Smartphone 2002". Microsoft originally defined its Windows Smartphone products as lacking a touchscreen and offering a lower screen resolution compared to its sibling Pocket PC devices. Palm has since largely abandoned its own Palm OS in favor of licensing Microsoft's WinCE-based operating system now referred to as Windows Mobile.
	In 2005 Nokia launched its N-Series of 3G smartphones which Nokia started to market not as mobile phones but as multimedia computers.
	Out of 1 billion camera phones to be shipped in 2008, smartphones, the higher end of the market with full email support, will represent about 10% of the market or about 100 million units.
	The Smartphone Summit semi-annual conference details smartphone industry market data, trends, and updates among smartphone related hardware, software, and accessor
	Android, a cross platform OS for smartphones was released in 2008. Android is an Open Source platform backed by Google, along with major hardware and software developers (such as Intel, HTC, ARM, and eBay, to name a few), that form the Open Handset Alliance.
	The first phone to use the Android OS is the HTC Dream, branded for distribution by Т-Mobile as the Glhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Smartphone -cite note-16. The phone features a full, capacitive touch screen, a flip out QWERTY keyboard, and a track ball for navigating web pages. The software suite included on the phone consists of integration with Google's proprietary applications, such as Maps, Calendar, and Gmail, as well as Google's Chrome Lite full HTML web browser. Third party apps are available for free via the Android Market, with premium apps slated for Q1 2009.
	In July 2008 Apple introduced its innovative App Store with both for fee and free applications. The app store was a new way to deliver smartphone applications developed by third parties directly to the iPhone or iPod Touch without using a PC via download over wifi or cellular network. The App Store has been a huge success for Apple and by April 2009 hosted more than 30,000 applications. The app store delivered its billionth application to users on April 23, 2009.
	Following the popularity of Apple's App Store, many other mobile platforms are following Apple with their own application stores. Palm, Microsoft and Nokia have all announced they will launch Apple-like app stores. RIM recently launched its ...

VGA - Video Graphics Array. Графическая система, разработанная ШМ. Имеет разрешение G40 х 480 пикселов и использует 16 цветов. Широко распространенный стандарт компьютерных графических систем.
IBM - International Business Machines, NYSE: IBM — транснациональная корпорация со штаб-квартирой в Армонке, штат Нью-Йорк (США), один из крупнейших в мире производителей вычислительной техники, периферийного оборудования, программного обеспечения, и консалтинга.
COMDEX - самое большое в мире компьютерное коммерческое шоу и самые большие конференции.
BellSouth - американская телекоммуникационная холдинговая компания, расположенная в Атланте, штат Джорджия a palmtop - карманный компьютер, наладонник
Hewlett Packard - крупная технологическая компания со штаб-квартирой в Пало-Альто (Калифорния, США). HP является мировым поставщиком ключевых технологий для корпоративных заказчиков и конечных пользователей.
A hinge - шарнир, стержень, подвижный механический элемент arguably - возможно, вероятно
Palm OS - операционная система для наладонных компьютеров у Коммуникаторов.
Visor PDA - карманный компьютер (КПК), работает на базе операционной
системы Palm OS
Windows СЕ - это вариант операционной системы Microsoft Windows дл! наладонных компьютеров, мобильных телефонов и встраиваемых систем, a sibling - букв. - брат или сестра вершины дерева, имеющие общего "родителя’ Android OS - основанная на Linux платформа для мобильных телефонов разрабатываемая Open Handset Alliance (ОНА), инициированным Google. Он •позволяет создавать Java приложения, управляющие устройством через разработанные Google библиотеки.
the Open Handset Alliance - бизнес-альянс 48 компаний по разработчик открытых стандартов для мобильных устройств, включающий Google, НТС Intel, Motorola, Qualcomm, Samsung, LG, Т-Mobile, Nvidia и Wind River Systems
HTC Dream - Т-Mobile G1 (кодовое название HTC Dream) — смартфон: компании НТС, основанный на платформе Google Android.
T-Mobile - это группа компаний, работающих в области мобильной связ! которые находятся в собственности германского телекоммуникационног холдинга Deutsche Telekom.
QWERTY keyboard - наиболее популярная в настоящее время латинска раскладка клавиатуры, используемая для английского языка. Название пошл от 6 левых символов верхнего ряда раскладки.
A track bail - шаровой манипулятор (для управления движением курсора)
Арр Store - это онлайн магазин (др. словами — онлайн-сервис) от Apple ил точнее — отдел онлайнового супермаркета iTunes Store, позволяющие владельцам мобильных телефонов iPhone и плееров iPod Touch покупать различные приложения


