		Windows ХР
	Windows ХР is a line of operating systems developed by Microsoft for use on general-purpose computer systems, including home and business desktops, notebook computers, and media centres. The letters "XP" stand for eXPerience Codenamed "Whistler" after Whistler, British Columbia, as many Microsoft employees skied at the Whistler-Blackcomb ski resort during its development, Windows XP is the successor to both Windows 2000 and Windows Me, and is the first consumer-oriented operating system produced by Microsoft to be built on the Windows NT kernel and architecture. Windows XP was first released on October 25, 2001, and over 400 million copies are in use, according to a January 2006 estimate by an IDC analyst. It is succeeded by Windows Vista, which was released to volume license customers on November 8, 2006 and worldwide to the general public on January 30, 2007.
	The most common editions of the operating system are Windows XP Home Edition, which is targeted at home users, and Windows XP Professional, which has additional features such as support for Windows Server domains and dual processors, and is targeted at power users and business clients. Windows XP Media Center Edition has additional multimedia features enhancing the ability to record and watch TV shows, view DVD movies, and listen to music. Windows XP Tablet PC Edition is designed to run the ink-aware Tablet PC platform. Two separate 64-bit versions of Windows XP were also released, Windows XP 64-bit Edition for IA-64 (Itanium) processors and Windows XP Professional x64 Edition for x86-64 processors.
	Windows XP is known for its improved stability and efficiency over previous versions of Microsoft Windows. It presents a significantly redesigned graphical user interface, a change Microsoft promoted as more user-friendly than previous versions of Windows. New software management capabilities were introduced to avoid the "DLL hell" that plagued older consumer versions of Windows. It is also the first version of Windows to use product activation to combat software piracy, a restriction that did not sit well with some users and privacy advocates. Windows XP has also been criticized by some users for security vulnerabilities, tight integration of applications such as Internet Explorer and Windows Media Player, and for aspects of its user interface.
	Windows XP had been in development since early 1999, when Microsoft started working on Windows Neptune, an operating system intended to be the "Home Edition" equivalent to Windows 2000 Professional. It was eventually cancelled and became Whistler, which later became Windows XP. Many ideas from Neptune and Odyssey (another cancelled Windows version) were used in Windows XP.-2294


		Windows Vista
	Microsoft began work on Windows Vista, known at the time by its codename Longhorn, in May 2001, five months before the release of Windows XP. It was originally expected to ship sometime late in 2003 as a minor step between Windows XP and Blackcomb, which was planned to be the company's next major operating system release. Gradually, "Longhorn" assimilated many of the important new features and technologies slated for Blackcomb, resulting in the release date being pushed back several times. Many of Microsoft's developers were also re-tasked to build updates to Windows XP and Windows Server 2003 to strengthen security. Faced with ongoing delays and concerns about feature creep, Microsoft announced on August 27, 2004 that it had revised its plans. The original Longhorn, based on the Windows XP source code, was scrapped, and Longhorn's development started anew, building on the Windows Server 2003 Service Pack 1 codebase, and re-incorporating only the features that would be intended for an actual operating system release. Some previously announced features such as WinFS were dropped or postponed, and a new software development methodology called the Security Development Lifecycle was incorporated in an effort to address concerns with the security of the Windows codebase.
	After Longhorn was named Windows Vista in July 2005, an unprecedented beta-test program was started, involving hundreds of thousands of volunteers and companies. In September of that year, Microsoft started releasing regular Community Technology Previews (CTP) to beta testers. The first of these was distributed at the 2005 Microsoft Professional Developers Conference, and was subsequently released to beta testers and Microsoft Developer Network subscribers. The builds that followed incorporated most of the planned features for the final product, as well as a number of changes to the user interface, based largely on feedback from beta testers. Windows Vista was deemed feature-complete with the release of the "February CTP", released on February 22, 2006, and much of the remainder of work between that build and the final release of the product focused on stability, performance, application and driver compatibility, and documentation. Beta 2, released in late May, was the first build to be made available to the general public through Microsoft's Customer Preview Program. It was downloaded by over five million people. Two release candidates followed in September and October, both of which were made available to a large number of users.
	While Microsoft had originally hoped to have the consumer versions of the operating system available worldwide in time for Christmas 2006, it was announced in March 2006 that the release date would be pushed back to January 2007. in order to give the company and the hardware and software companies which Microsoft depends on for providing device drivers-additional time to prepare. Development of Windows Vista came to an end when Microsoft announced that it had been finalized on November 8, 2006. Windows Vista cost Microsoft 6 billion dollars to develop.
	Windows Vista contains many changes and new features, including an updated graphical user interface and visual style dubbed Windows Aero, a redesigned search functionality, multimedia tools including Windows DVD Maker, and redesigned networking, audio, print, and display sub-systems. Vista aims to increase the level of communication between machines on a home network, using peer-to-peer technology to simplify sharing files and digital media between computers and devices. Windows Vista includes version 3.0 of the .NET Framework, allowing software developers to write applications without traditional Windows APIs.
	Microsoft's primary stated objective with Windows Vista has been to improve the state of security in the Windows operating system. One common criticism of Windows XP and its predecessors is their commonly exploited security vulnerabilities and overall susceptibility to malware, viruses and buffer overflows. In light of this, Microsoft chairman Bill Gates announced in early 2002 a company-wide "Trustworthy Computing initiative" which aims to incorporate security work into every aspect of software development at the company. Microsoft stated that it prioritized improving the security of Windows XP and Windows Server 2003 above finishing Windows Vista, thus delaying its completion.
	While these new features and security improvements have garnered positive reviews, Vista has also been the target of much criticism and negative press. Criticism of Windows Vista has targeted its high system requirements, its more restrictive licensing terms, the inclusion of a number of new digital rights management technologies aimed at restricting the copying of protected digital media, lack of compatibility with some pre-Vista hardware and software, and the number of authorization prompts for User Account Control. As a result of these and other issues, Windows Vista had seen initial adoption and satisfaction rates lower than Windows
	XP. However, with an estimated 350 million internet users as of January 2009, it has been announced that Vista usage had surpassed Microsoft’s pre-launch two-year-out expectations of achieving 200 million users. As of the end of May 2009, Windows Vista is the second most widely used operating system on the internet with a 24.35% market share, the most widely used being Windows XP with a 61.54% market share. -4632





		Windows XP
	ХР ХР представляет собой линейку операционных систем, разработанных Microsoft для использования на универсальных компьютерных систем, в том числе дома и бизнеса настольных компьютеров, ноутбуков и медиа-центров. Буквы "XP" стенд для опыта под кодовым названием "Whistler" от Уистлер, Британская Колумбия, так как многие сотрудники Microsoft ходили на лыжах на горнолыжном курорте Whistler-Blackcomb во время его развития, Windows XP является преемником как Windows 2000 и Windows Me, и является первый потребитель-ориентированная операционная система производства Microsoft будет построена на ядре Windows NT и архитектуре. Windows XP была выпущена 25 октября 2001 года, и более 400 миллионов копий используются, в соответствии с января 2006 года по оценке аналитика IDC. Он сменил Windows Vista, которая была выпущена для корпоративного лицензирования клиентов 8 ноября 2006 года и во всем мире для широкой публики 30 января 2007 
	Наиболее распространенные выпуски операционной системы являются Windows XP Home Edition, которая ориентирована на домашние пользователи, и Windows XP Professional, которая имеет дополнительные функции, такие как поддержка доменов Windows Server, и двумя процессорами и ориентирована на опытных пользователей и бизнес-клиентов. Windows XP Media Center Edition имеет дополнительные мультимедийные функции, расширяющие способность записывать и смотреть телепередачи, просматривать DVD фильмы и слушать музыку. Windows XP Tablet PC Edition предназначена для запуска чернилами известно платформы Tablet PC. Два отдельных 64-разрядных версий Windows XP были также выпущены, Windows XP 64-разрядная версия для IA-64 (Itanium) процессоров и Windows XP Professional x64 Edition для x86-64 процессоров. 
	Windows XP известна своей улучшенной стабильностью и эффективностью по сравнению с предыдущими версиями Microsoft Windows. Она представляет собой существенно переработанный графический пользовательский интерфейс, изменение Microsoft позиционируется как более удобным для пользователей, чем в предыдущих версиях Windows. Новые возможности управления программным обеспечением были введены, чтобы избежать "DLL Hell", которые мешали старые версии потребительские Windows. Это также первая версия Windows, чтобы использовать активации продукта для борьбы с пиратством программного обеспечения, ограничение, которое не сидело хорошо с некоторыми пользователями и защитниками конфиденциальности. Windows XP был также раскритикован некоторыми пользователями уязвимостей безопасности, тесной интеграции приложений, таких как Internet Explorer и Windows Media Player, а также для аспектов ее пользовательского интерфейса. 
	Windows XP была в разработке с начала 1999 года, когда Microsoft начала работу над Windows, Нептун, операционной системы, предназначенной быть "Home Edition" эквивалентно Windows 2000 Professional. Он был в конечном счете отменен, и стал Уистлер, который позже стал Windows XP. Много идей от Нептуна и Odyssey (другая версия отменена Windows) были использованы в Windows, XP.-2294 

		Windows Vista 
	Microsoft начала работу над Windows Vista, известный в то время по его кодовому Longhorn, в мае 2001 года, за пять месяцев до выхода ОС Windows XP. Первоначально он был как ожидается, судно где-то в конце 2003 года в качестве второстепенного шага между Windows XP и Blackcomb, которое было запланировано на следующий крупный релиз операционной системы компании. Постепенно, «Longhorn» ассимилированы многие из важных новых функций и технологий, намеченных к Blackcomb, в результате чего дата выпуска оттесняют несколько раз. Многие из разработчиков Microsoft были также повторно поставлена ​​задача построить обновления для Windows XP и Windows Server 2003 для укрепления безопасности. Столкнувшись с текущими задержками и опасений по поводу признаков ползучести, Microsoft объявила 27 августа 2004 года, что она пересмотрела свои планы. Оригинальный Лонгхорн, основанный на исходном коде Windows XP, был списан, и развитие Longhorn началось заново, опираясь на Windows Server 2003 с пакетом обновления 1 кодовую и вновь включив только те функции, которые будут предназначены для фактического выпуска операционной системы. Некоторые ранее объявленные функции, такие как WinFS были сняты или отложены, а новая методология разработки программного обеспечения под названием Security Development Lifecycle была включена в целях решения проблем с безопасностью кодовую Windows. 
	После того, как был назван Longhorn Windows Vista в июле 2005 года, является беспрецедентным бета-тестовая программа была начата, с участием сотен тысяч добровольцев и компаний. В сентябре того же года Microsoft начала выпускать регулярные Community Technology Previews (CTP) для бета-тестеров. Первый из них был распространен на Microsoft Professional Developers Conference 2005, а затем был выпущен бета-тестеров и абонентов сети разработчиков Microsoft. Построений, которые последовали включены большинство запланированных функций для конечного продукта, а также ряд изменений в пользовательском интерфейсе, в основном базируется на обратной связи от бета-тестеров. Windows Vista была признана функционально в комплекте с выпуском «February CTP», опубликованном 22 февраля 2006 года, и большая часть оставшейся работы между этой сборкой и окончательной версии продукта сосредоточены на стабильности, производительности, применения и драйвера совместимость и документация. Beta 2, выпущенный в конце мая, был первым, чтобы построить быть доступны для широкой общественности через Клиента от Microsoft Preview Program. Он был загружен более пяти миллионов человек. Два кандидата релиз последовал в сентябре и октябре, оба из которых были сделаны доступными для большого количества пользователей. 
	В то время как Microsoft первоначально надеялись иметь потребительские версии операционной системы доступны по всему миру во времени на Рождество 2006 года, было объявлено в марте 2006 года, что дата выпуска будет перенесена на январь 2007 года, чтобы дать компании и оборудование и программное обеспечение компании Microsoft, которая зависит для обеспечения водителей-дополнительных устройств время для подготовки. Разработка Windows Vista подошел к концу, когда Microsoft объявила, что она была завершена 8 ноября 2006 г. Windows Vista Microsoft стоить 6 миллиардов долларов на разработку. 
	Windows Vista содержит множество изменений и новых функций, включая обновленный графический пользовательский интерфейс и визуальный стиль окрестили Windows Aero, переработанный функции поиска, мультимедийные инструменты, в том числе Windows DVD Maker, и переработанный сети, аудио, печати и отображения подсистем. Vista, направлена ​​на повышение уровня коммуникации между машинами в домашней сети, используя технологию одноранговая сеть, чтобы упростить совместное использование файлов и цифровых средств массовой информации между компьютерами и устройствами. Windows Vista включает в себя версию 3.0 .NET Framework, позволяя разработчикам создавать приложения без традиционных интерфейсов API Windows. 
	Основная цель Microsoft заявила с Windows Vista в том, чтобы улучшить состояние безопасности в операционной системе Windows. Одна общая критика Windows XP и его предшественников является их часто эксплуатируют уязвимости в системе безопасности и общую восприимчивость к вредоносные программы, вирусы и переполнения буфера. В свете этого, председатель Microsoft Билл Гейтс объявил, что в начале 2002 года в масштабах всей компании "Trustworthy Computing Initiative», целью которой является включение работы в области безопасности во все аспекты разработки программного обеспечения на предприятии. Microsoft заявила, что приоритетное повышение безопасности Windows XP и Windows Server 2003 выше отделки Windows Vista, задерживая тем самым его завершения. 
	В то время как эти новые функции и улучшения безопасности получил положительные отзывы, Vista также был объектом большой критики и негативной прессы. Критика Windows Vista наметила свои высокие системные требования, его более ограничительные условия лицензирования, включение целого ряда новых технологий управления цифровыми правами, направленных на ограничение копирование защищенных цифровых носителей, отсутствие совместимости с некоторыми заранее Vista, аппаратного и программного обеспечения, и количество авторизации запрашивает User Account Control. В результате этих и других проблем, Windows Vista видел первоначального принятия и удовлетворение ставки ниже, чем Windows, 
	XP. Тем не менее, по оценкам, 350 миллионов интернет-пользователей по состоянию на январь 2009 года было объявлено, что использование Vista, превзошел ожидания перед запуском двухлетняя-аута от Microsoft достижения 200 миллионов пользователей. По состоянию на конец мая 2009 года, Windows Vista является вторым наиболее широко используется операционная система в Интернете с долей рынка 24,35%, наиболее широко используемым является Windows XP с долей рынка 61,54%. -4632
