		The electronic age
	Electronics is the art of using electrons in devices such as transistors and silicon chips to make electricity work for us. There is no doubt it has had far-reaching effects on nearly all aspects of life, although its influence often remains unseen. Our modem day dependency on electronics was spurred by the invention of the transistor in the late 1940s. This was followed by the manufacture of silicon chips in the early 1960s that has ultimately led to incredibly complex circuits containing thousands of transistors integrated on a sliver of silicon so small you could lose it under your fingernail. Miniaturizing electronic circuits in this way is called microelectronics and it has come to influence the way we store, process and distribute information; to change the way we design and manufacture industrial goods; to improve the diagnosis and treatment of illnesses; and it shapes the affairs of finance and business as well as a variety of social, educational and political activities. Nowadays, we take for granted the way electronics makes our lives more comfortable, enjoyable, creative and exciting.
	We are surrounded by products in and round our homes that make use of electronics in one way or another. Washing machines, security systems and toasters are “clever” because of the function of electronic circuits in them, not forgetting that hi-fi systems, radios, DVD (digital versatile disk) players, MP3 players and computers are so obviously “electronic” in what they do. One major advance familiar to all is the storage of recorded information brought about by the compact disk (CD) and the DVD.
	One of the most important developments in music technology has been the creation of the MP3 format for recording and playing music in digital form. MP3 is a compression system for music that reduces the amount of memory space required to store a song without impairing the quality of the song's sound. The aim of this format is to compress a CD-quality song by a factor of 10 to 14 without noticeably affecting the CD-quality sound. With MP3 you can compress down to about 3 MB a 32 - megabyte (MB) song. This lets you download a song in minutes rather than hours, and store hundreds of songs on your computer hard disk without taking up that much space.
	Cameras that capture images on a film will be around for a long time yet, but many photographers are finding digital cameras more exciting and convenient to use. The so-called digital revolution has transformed the capture and processing of still and moving pictures. No longer it is necessary to process film to recover the image. In its place, at the focal plane of the camera lens is an electronic sensor called a charge-coupled device (CCD). The CCD converts the image produced by the camera lens into a digital image that is stored in an on-board integrated circuit as a digital file. In this state the image can be viewed at any time and then downloaded for image processing on a computer for manipulating and printing or for use on web pages.


Vocabulary:
	device - устройство, приспособление, прибор, механизм
	circuit - цепь
	chip - микросхема
	to spur — подстегнуть, побудить
	dependency- зависимость
	ultimately- в конечном счете, в конце концов
	sliver - лучина, лента, щепка
	silicon - кремний
	application - применение, приложение to process - обрабатывать
	development - развитие, разработка, конструирование, усовершенствование compression - сжатие, уплотнение, сдавливание versatile - многосторонний
	to impair - портить, повреждать, ухудшать, ослаблять download - загрузка, откачивать из оперативной памяти 
	to take up - занимать
	to capture — захватывать, снимать
	a focal plane - фокальная плоскость
	sensor - датчик, чувствительный элемент
	to convert - преобразовывать, перерабатывать
	storage - хранение
	factor - множитель, показатель, коэффициент film - кинопленка, фотопленка, кинофильм 
	charge-coupled device - устройство с зарядовой связью

